now these are the judgments which you
shall set before them if you buy a
Hebrew servant he shall serve six years
and in the seventh he shall go out free
and pay nothing if he comes in by
himself he shall go out by himself if he
comes in married then his wife shall go
out with him if his master has given him
a wife and she has borne him sons or
daughters the wife and her children
shall be her masters and he shall go out
by himself but if the servant plainly
says I love my master my wife and my
children I will not go out free then his
master shall bring him to the judges he
shall also bring him to the door or to
the doorpost and his master shall pierce
his ear with an awl and he shall serve
him for ever and if a man sells his
daughter to be a female slave she shall
not go out as the male slaves do if she
does not please her master who has
betrothed her to himself then he shall
let her be redeemed he shall have no
right to sell her to a foreign people
since he has dealt deceitfully with her
and if he has betrothed her to his son
he shall deal with her according to the
custom of daughters if he takes another
wife he shall not diminish her food her
clothing and her marriage rights and if
he does not do these three for her then
she shall go out free without paying
money
he who strikes a man so that he dies
shall surely be put to death however if
he did not lie in wait
but God delivered him into his hand then
I will appoint for you a place where he
may flee but if a man acts with
premeditation against his neighbor to
kill him by treachery you shall take him
from my altar that he may die and he who
strikes his father or his mother shall
surely be put to death
he who kidnaps a man and sells him or if
he is found in his hand shall surely be
put to death and he who curses his
father or his mother shall surely be put
to death if men contend with each other
and one strikes the other with a stone
or with his fist and he does not die but
is confined to his bed if he rises again
and walks about outside with his staff
then he who struck him shall be
acquitted he shall only pay for the loss
of his time and shall provide for him to
be thoroughly healed and if a man beats
his male or female servant with a rod so
that he dies under his hand he shall
surely be punished notwithstanding if he
remains alive a day or two he shall not
be punished for he is his property if
men fight and hurt a woman with child so
that she gives birth prematurely yet no
harm follows he shall surely be punished
accordingly as the woman's husband
imposes on him and he shall pay as the
judges determine but if any harm follows
then you shall give life for life eye
for eye tooth for tooth hand for hand
foot for foot burn for burn wound for
wound
stripe for stripe if a man strikes the
eye of his male or female servant and
destroys it
he shall let him go free for the sake of
his eye and if he knocks out the tooth
of his male or female servant he shall
let him go free for the sake of his
tooth if an ox cause a man or a woman to
death then the arks shall surely be
stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten
but the owner of the arks shall be
acquitted but if the orcs tended to
thrust with its horn in times past and
it has been made known to his owner and
he has not kept it confined so that it
has killed a man or a woman the ox shall
be stoned and its owner also shall be
put to death if there is imposed on him
a sum of money then he shall pay to
redeem his life whatever is imposed on
him whether it is gored a son or gored a
daughter according to this judgment it
shall be done to him if the ox cause a
male or female servant he shall give to
their master thirty shekels of silver
and the Ox shall be stolen and if a man
opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and
does not cover it and an ox or donkey
falls in it the owner of the pit shall
make it good he shall give money to
their owner but the dead animal
shall be is if one man's ox hurts
another's so that it dies then they
shall sell the live ox and divide the
money from it and the dead ox they shall
also divide or if it was known that the
ox tended to thrust in time past and its
owner has not kept it confined he shall
surely pay ox for ox and the dead animal
shall be his own
[Music]